---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---


## "Open Source"... what is it?
Open source defines itself: it's source code that's *open* for use, alteration, and/or distribution. When I think about open source, I think about a distinct lack of secrecy and confidentiality. I think of these projects as having a self-governed community (perhaps with some leaders) open to new ideas and with more democratic say than on other kinds of projects. I have always been unclear, however, about the legality of using open source projects for business purposes, like in a product one might sell. I took this class to learn more about how I might contribute to projects and about how licensing works.

## My Four Favorite Projects

### 1. Wikipedia
While not necessarily code-based, I suppose Wikipedia could be considered an open source project since anyone can contribute (at least to some degree, I'm not totally familiar with the rules regarding posting to popular pages) and everyone can benefit from it for free. I could use other standard encyclopedias to learn what I've learned from Wikipedia, but the immediacy of access and seemingly endless supply of topics to explore makes Wikipedia the obvious choice in most situations. The lack of direct verifiability of this content makes it only a viable starting point for serious research, but sources are often cited and this allows for an easy way to fact-check.

### 2. Xi Editor
Though I haven't used this editor very much, it was the first open source project I was introduced to from a backend point of view. The creator worked at Google, and walked me through why he started the project and taught me a bit about the benefits of open source. It was also fascinating to hear about the relationship between a corporation and a project like this, demonstrating to me for the first time how something can be both open source and "created" or monitored in some way by a company. I personally use Sublime Text for most of my text editing, but perhaps once I get a firmer grasp on how to use Xi I may give it another shot; I hadn't been coding for very long when I first learned about it, and it was a bit intimidating at the time.

### 3. DuckDuckGo
I've been using DuckDuckGo for years and didn't even know it was open source until recently! I value privacy and take issue with the tracking done by companies like Google, so when I learned about DuckDuckGo it seemed like the obvious choice. The search engine itself has continuously improved over the years, so I've found no reason not to use it and never went back to Google. It brings a privacy-centric model to search at the cost of ad revenue, which seems to me why this would be a perfect candidate for open source. In a sense, it seems to me like a project made "by the people, for the people," and a large company doesn't need to keep it proprietary for revenue-based reasons. I'm not really sure *how* the company that founded DuckDuckGo does make money... however, evidently, making it open source allows volunteers to work on it without pay, which would certainly save money and mean they don't need to make as much as, say, Google.

### 4. Swift
I've done a bit of Swift programming, and it's certainly a cool language, but this is primarily another example of a project that turned me on to the concept of open source. I'm a big Apple fan, so it struck my attention when they announced at a keynote that Swift was open source and the crowd went wild. I hadn't coded much at all when Swift was released, but given what my notions about open source at the time, it seemed crazy that a company as secretive as Apple would make a product that could be worked on by anyone. Also, the idea that a *language* itself could be collaborated on openly made me even more curious about programming in general.
