---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

## Thoughts on Readings: _Cathedral and the Bazaar_, _Producing Open Source Software_, and _Why Open Source Misses the Point of Free Software_

### Cathedral versus Bazaar, and Two Lessons

I was pleasantly surprised when I read Raymond's definitions of the "cathedral" and "bazaar" styles of software development, as I've been thinking about this distinction since I first started coding. Ideas from Silicon Valley that get bounced around like "move fast and break things" have always flown in the face of how I believe great design is achieved: carefully, thoughtfully, and unreleased until its really ready. This places me squarely in the cathedral camp. I've always been an Apple fan when it comes to tech companies because they seem to have the cathedral model in their DNA. However, I think Apple has great taste, and that's the only way the cathedral model can work well.

There is a LOT of bad proprietary software (and hardware) out there, and then there's the gatekeeping that comes with proprietary goods in the first place. Too much power for those who don't have a great vision to begin with and the closed off nature of keeping proprietary goods safe from being "stolen" are major downfalls of working in the cathedral model. This is where the bazaar comes in. The open, non-discriminatory bazaar model of development is certainly the one that most easily aligns with open source. I believe there is a place for both models, and I really only prefer the cathedral in ideal scenarios (when the designers in charge are really great at what they do). Also, I think perhaps the ideal model is a combination of the two. As Raymond explains, "the action, the ferment, the innovation mostly takes place in the open part of the tool where a large and varied community can tinker with it," then some core cathedral-mode is in charge of the vision.

Given how much open source software is in use all over the place, history has shown the incredible value of the bazaar. It pairs beautifully with the democratic, open nature of the internet (barring censorship in places with such laws). This leads me to quote my first favorite of two lessons from this reading, lesson number two: "Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse)." I think the real value of open source, and by extension the bazaar model of development, comes from the fact that developers can freely use and repurpose bits of projects into something totally fresh that would've otherwise been impossible for them to achieve. This has obliterated the need for what surely would've been countless hours of redundant work for people and companies everywhere. 

Speaking of obliterating redundant work, here's my next favorite lesson, lesson number 12: "Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong." This one certainly rings true for me, as I've so often worked on projects that went nowhere for hours because at the core, my concept of the problem at hand was flawed. Stepping back and rethinking the concept overall has always been effective for me, and again, this is a great plug for open source as well. What better way is there to look at a problem from another point of view than to literally get someone else's point of view?

### "Free" versus "Open"

Now, this begs the question: is software development all about making the best possible work? Is it strictly practical and should the goal always be to make powerful propducts? Stallman's differentiation between "free software" and "open source" brings up these questions, as the free software movement where open source stems from was focused on principles protecting liberties, or "freedom", first. I personally don't see the problem with open source, as yes, I think a major benefit of open source software is to be used to make large, robust products. The freedoms that come along with it (at least so long as the license remains) are excellent, and I'm happy projects that remain free do so, but I also don't necessarily think the copyright for every open source project needs to be donated away to an entity to ensure it stays free.


### Home-Assistant Progress

Thus far, we've been exploring forums, documentation, and a bit of the codebase. I made a post on the main forum to see if anyone has recommendations for newbies, which I'm waiting on a response to. Since this project is massive and there are a lot of people working on it, I have a feeling most of the real code contributions I'll end up doing in the long run will come after this class is over. However, for the time being, we're planning on getting out feet wet by adding to the documentation and getting involved in discussions on their forums to learn about the platform. Some documentation digging led us to find some features that were only partially implemented, so that may be a good issue to raise in the repo and get feedback on whether anyone is planning to finish them. It's certainly a bit intimidating to jump into such a huge project, but the community seems supportive and full of lots of people who want to learn together, so I'm excited to be making contact!





