---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

## Getting Started on Home Assistant

I'm excited to be getting started working on Home Assistant. My teammates and I have spent the week getting up and running, ensuring we all have a working development environment and a basic understanding of how the project works. It's a huge project, but there is a ton of documentation about both code and more abstract architecture that we're thinking we'll dive into first. In order to make a meaningful contribution, we agree that getting a firm grasp of the different major modules working together in the project as a whole will be vital. This week, we plan to read an discuss the documentation related to both the backend infrasructure and the frontend GUI so we can decide what to set out sights on for contribution. Perhaps we'll find some grammar errors or missing information along the way that we can raise an error about. :)

## Thoughts on Wikipedia

I've always thought it was sort of funny that in every class I've ever had that required research, my teacher has always made a point of explaining why Wikipedia was un-citable. It's THE go-to for information about just about anything, and outside of formal research papers, I always find myself there when I want to learn something. I know the formality comes from how often it changes and that citations require a valid source to "prove" the information is legitimate. For all of the time I've spent on Wikipedia, though, even given its nature of being open to edits from basically anybody, I've rarely if ever been led astray.

This leads me to believe a fair number of people who contribute to Wikipedia are those who genuinely believe in their mission: to make information available about as much as possible to as many people as possible, and all for free. The technical breakdowns of subjects spanning math, science, and computer science in particular that I've read about are remarkably detailed and advanced, indicating that those articles had to have been written by experts who understand it. I'm no expert in anything, really, but I do have a knack for grammar. I'll likely keep my contributions to fixing grammar or flagging information that may need more sources to back it up. I've never before considered being a regular contributor to Wikipedia, but it seems like something I could end up doing if I become knowledgeable enough in some subject to contribute.

Wales' talk on Wikipedia is interesting, especially given how much is so similar still (e.g. written by volunteers, albeit perhaps a lot more than just the few thousand that contributed back then). The webpage itself even looks very similar today as it did back then, as can be seen on the computer screen behind Wales. 2 million articles had been written at that point total, with only about 600,000 in English; now, there's more than 5.8 million articles in English alone. In fact, every number Wales mentions has grown enormously over the past decade and a half. Even with all of their growth, I love seeing a digital product that hasn't changed much over this much time. It's a truly rare opportunity to see something like that, as every other major site is barely recognizable compared to its mid '00s self. I also love Wales' take on the parties of the "thoughtful" and the "jerks". This is an ever important distinction that comes so alive online, and it sums up perfectly why something like Wikipedia can exist: lots of people with all kinds of opinions are thoughtful, even if plenty of others are jerks. The even-handed nature of internet platforms allows both parties to exist and even thrive, but it remains a challenge to determine how to keep it erring on the side of thoughtful.