---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

## More Lessons From _The Cathedral and the Bazaar_

This article is chock-full of useful lessons, so I'll dive into some more. First: "Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away." I first heard advice like this in an interview with Jony Ive, the lead designer at Apple. The way he put it was that design isn't supposed to "wag its tail in your face." The less you think about the design, the more effective it is, even to the extreme that the final design of something seems _naive_ because its so simple. I've used this as a guiding principle for years now when I code, write music, do presentations, etc... it's one of those across-the-board great things to keep in mind when approaching just about anything. Design is communication of an idea. Communication is _always_ best when simple, and simple means taking away everything except what's necessary.

Another related lesson about communication: "When your language is nowhere near Turing-complete, syntactic sugar can be your friend." In other words, if a programming language isn't general purpose, it could use some help in making sure the intended functionality is more universally legible. This ties to all of my favorite lessons from this article in that it reiterates the importance of clarity in communication and design. Code that does it's job funcionally is important. Code that _makes sense_ to people is vital if that code is to be improved upon collaboratively. That makes this a particularly good lesson for open source.

Perhaps my favorite lesson: "To solve an interesting problem, start by finding a problem that is interesting to you." This one seems so obvious on the surface, but after reading it a few times I realized how helpful it is. I love solving interesting problems because they're, well, interesting to _solve_. That much is obvious, but what's important is that I can't solve any interesting problems unless I _have_ interesting problems to solve. If I find a problem interesting in itself, this lesson says that it'll be interesting to solve as well. I hadn't really thought of problem-solving in this way before, and yet it makes so much sense. Simplicity is king (see the "perfection" lesson above).


## Home-Assistant Progress

Good week for Team Home-Assistant! I found an open issue with lots of the documentation pages we'd found empty or otherwise unfinished, and each of us claimed a page to fill out. The guy who opened the issue was very thankful. After some code digging and Q&A with him, we figured out where all the info about the entities we wanted to write about was in code. I see now why no one had finished the documentation -- often properties return None by default and there's no type hints in that init file... have to seek out implementations instead to see what types people use in practice. There's lots to write, and we're gearing up for our first PR this week to make sure we're on the right track.

This gives us a very real way to help the project, even if we're not coding much. I'd still like to try my hand at implementing a new component at some point, but I think we will find it most fruitful to contribute to the docs before the end of the semester. This way I'll have some involvement with the community under my belt going forward, and I'm becoming much more familiar with the systems in the project, which could help me out if I want to contribute code in the future.