---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

## Open Source and Humanitarian Goals

Open source and humanitarian efforts appear to go hand in hand. Creating and contributing to freely accessible tools that help *anyone* is an obviously applicable premise when it comes to humanitarianism, and that's exactly what open source can offer. Though some projects may be large and complex, I would figure that getting involved in HFOSS projects could be easier and more appreciated than others, since most if not all contributors and maintainers may be volunteers. However, given the mission-critical nature of these projects, anyone who may want to contribute would probably have an easier time contributing in non-code heavy ways, such as writing documentation. Having a *cause*, a hope to help people, can also bring people together in a uniquely warm and commuinity-driven way; humanitarian efforts perhaps wouldn't pair with greed or other mal-intent that may plague other types of projects. HFOSS appears to include a mix of high responsibility and goodwill with impact, so getting involved in even some small way could be rewarding. Personally, I think "prestige" doesn't mesh with humanitarianism since the goal is to be selfless and help people, not boost your ego. Like I said said, I think *rewarding* is more of a applicable word here. I personally would check out projects like this, but given my interests and lack of experience at the time being, I think I'd rather stick to less mission-critical projects that I can more tangibly apply to my life until I build more robust skills for contributing elsewhere.

## HFOSS Project Evaluation