---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

## Kevin Fleming's Talk

I really enjoyed Kevin's talk last week, as I felt it was a great balance of technical and big-picture topics. I had heard of the Bloomberg Terminal before but had little idea about what it looked like and how it functioned. All I _thought_ I knew is that it is the epitome of proprietary hardware/software: a very expensive, large platform that allows unique access for customers only. This is certainly true in some respects, as the data Bloomberg provides is indeed a unique selling point. However, as Kevin explained, open source actually takes a big role in the software of the Terminal. I'm enjoying learning about examples of open source mixed into proprietary systems, and when we learned that open source was used in the majority of digital products and applications, I almost couldn't believe it. Kevin made this tangible, showing what that means in practice.

I also found it cool that Bloomberg treats their relationship with open source as a two way street. When they implement something that could be useful to the project as a whole, they contribute back to the project. I find this interesting mainly because it shows that even a large for-profit company understands that its mutually beneficial for them and the project they use to contribute, keeping the community healthy and vibrant. At first thought it would've seemed idealistic for me to consider that they might contribute back to a _free_ project _for free_, but it makes sense when I consider that they want a strong community behind the tools they use and it's helpful to have a positive relationship with them.

### Home-Assistant Progress

Another great week -- we finished two pages of documentation and got both PRs merged! It felt great to have our work implemented, even better than I thought it would. I had been hesitant about making a PR simply because I figured I might have _something_ wrong, but I had to remind myself that it was my first ever PR on a public project and if there was something for me to fix, they'd tell me. I also put myself in the project maintainers' shoes and realized that I would be totally thankful to anyone willing to write a big chunk of documentation. This week we plan to tidy up the last of our three pages to submit, and we'll look into whether writing some more docs will be doable by the end of the semester.