---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

## Picking a Project

The project I originally evaluated, a little thing called Bitcoin, seems realistically out of reach as something I could contribute to. I actually was listening to a podcast recently as well where the hosts were discussing how Bitcoin is a project that the creators (and investors etc) actually don't necessarily want to change much to try and retain the integrity of it's function.

After reading through several of my classmates' evaluation and seeing that a lot of their projects were not good for beginners, I ventured back into Github and found a promising new project for me to get involved with: Home Assistant. They have a big active community, lots of documentation, and best of all, guides for absolute beginners and suggestions for how to contribute.

Setting up the development environment took a number of steps I wasn't familiar with, but the guide was clear enough to make it relatively painless. There's even short guides for "hello world"-like starter edits to get things moving. Neat!

Since this is the project I plan to focus on, I dove into its license rather than Bitcoin's. Home Assistant uses the Apache 2.0 license. In short, this allows anyone to use and modify the project for any use, commercial or personal. No contributors are liable to you ("you" being the one using or changing this project for your own purposes), any modification by you submitted to the main project falls under the same license, and you must include the same license with the work if you redistribute it.

I'm excited to keep reading into the documentation of this project and see how I might be able to actually get involved!

### In other news: Mozilla Presentation Reflection

The presentation Christos gave was interesting for me primarily because of his story of personal connection to open source. He embodies a clear example of open source as a lifestyle and culture, rather than just a way of making software (or other things). I hadn't realized before that "open source" itself really did bring people together in the way that Christos described, and I find it so cool that he went from enthusiastic hobbiest to professional at Mozilla all under the umbrella of working on open source projects. There's way more to this thing than I thought.